So therefore, random surveys quickly sometimes break down our beautiful motivation. Therefore,
always in the teaching said, "Stay with capabilities, but always inspire joy of yourself," what you
did, what you're able to do, and what you're delighted with what you're doing, not doing
the performance of the bodhichitta activity with boring and with kind of force force, with joy,
with appreciation, with graceful, with great that I can do this, I'm doing this, I will do better
tomorrow and the next week and the next day, and so kind of long lasting goal with joy and
the delightful, and that's the way known as the capability activity of the bodhichitta.
Then the moralities, morality is then with again follow the rules and guidelines of the
every aspects, the way you stay in the community or the guru, where you stay, there's rules of the
guidelines of the other, the beautiful human society ethics, that's it, that we should follow.
And there's many rules, the guidelines according that, that, and kind of keep up those known as
morality. And then in the Dharma, there's many different instructions, guidelines, according
to different yanas, for example, patimokya yanas, and bodhisattva yanas, and vaidya yana,
teaching, there's Buddha gives so many guidelines, so many instructions how to keep up those, our
conduct and moralities. Again, this morality, conduct, what Buddha gives is actually support
to growth of our practice, our meditation, our bodhisattva. It is like, what's called, when we
go to the nursery, nursery, those plant things, each year when we buy the flower pot, or what's
called the plant, each time we buy the flower, there's a small level, stick out, there's
instructions,
this needs like three days in one water or something, and it is a semi-shade plant,
don't put in the sun too much, or don't put in shade too much. And then, and also the temperature,
why is this needed that? This old instruction gives. And this instruction is not just making
our side more tired, more, making more trouble to us, but it's really all helpful conduct,
advice, tips, tips that well, that what we bought, that plant will make, grow so beautifully,
so beautiful as we desired. Similarly, this morality instructions, what Buddha
teaching gives, all that is beautiful tips, tips, I mean, we apply, then it will really bring the
growth of the realization as we want it, as is instructed, that will grow. Therefore, this
morality is so special. It's self is practice, it is gentle, it is peaceful, it is perfectly
balanced,
it is respecting appreciation, and staying perfectly in human society, and as average
citizens, going nothing above and nothing below, but beautiful, it's just calm and soothing,
not struggling, and yes, it's spiritual. And that is reflection of the bodhicitta,
every man train those is known as bodhicitta. And then similarly, with the passion,
passion is bodhicitta. Again, practice bodhicitta is not something simple and easy, and immediately
something just kind of so easy, easy. Bodhicitta practice is very, very challenging, very difficult
,
hardy, because sentient beings have so many desires, so many thoughts, even if we're doing
the best, still maybe not necessary, they think the best. And even if we're staying
perfectly in morality, perfectly in control, all that, still maybe provolting this and that.
And we're not going to please them and happy them these practices, but we're practicing this
for ourselves and to make our better self for the long vision we have. Therefore, we need courage
and confidence and commitment to continue caring about each other with joy, with appreciation,
with reaffirming, reassuring ourselves each time. And therefore, passion is,
patient practice or tolerance practice means practice of courage, practice of confidence, practice
of the commitment, that is what the patient means. And also patient practice means forgiveness,
forgiving to others, excuse, excuse, that and the more forward. We're not going to start with the
emotion and that and the more forward, but we're going to make everything best, everything our best
of our ability to maintain and to count up these. That is, then there's many different levels of
the
of the patient practices, but patient is generally, as you all know, tolerance means
that something kind of difficult challenge comes. You stand in family with that and not pushing
for yourself or not let kind of destroy yourself. You're keeping up, orderly that use all the
different skills and methods according to the teaching and practices. And then, then we report.
In the way the other teaching opens, said let it go when the negative emotions are kind of raging
to our mental states, let it go, let it go, that. It didn't mean that let it go, we just become so
kind of casual and sloppy, but each time when we let it go, we just strengthen our awareness,
understand. So we have better technique, better understanding, better accepted how to deal with
the situation is difficult and let it go. That principle, that means that not let hold down
our practice of the both each other and that is known as the patient practices.
And then joyful effort is always necessary. Without the joyful effort, there's nothing going to
itch,
nothing going to work. Even the samsara world, if we don't have the joyful effort,
it's completely stuff. And opposite of the joyful effort is laziness. And then it just kind of
breaks down everything. So those are known as joyful effort. And then the concentration,
accumulation of your meditation, it is actualizing both each other. And through this we should then
actualize both each other. But the intention, deep intention, is love, kindness, and compassion,
that thought for all sentient beings, beneficial thought for all sentient beings. That is really
known as the both each other. Once we are actualizing both each other, then stage. And then also
you can
apply, there's the other way to kind of actualizing both each other. Those are known as the first.
Again, this is like, because generally ego-cling is always self-important, as I said before.
I'm the important. And I'm. And then the rest is just you. So I, I think also in English,
we put "I" in order to symbolize "I" is always a capital, I think. "I" is a capital,
that's what it's called. Rest is just a regular word. But whenever "I" comes, it's a capital,
"B" one. Have to stand tall among that letters. And that's how important "I" is.
And so now "I" is, I mean, it's important. And when we develop the both each other,
both we have to bring, everyone is equal. Everyone is equal. We all are equal. There's
no really difference. Actually, it's true. It's no difference. We all, whether you're
poor, whether you're rich, poor, or whatever, powerful, primus or non-primus, we all breathe
the same air. We stay same, same on the earth. And we need same sunlight. Same thing. We eat
the same healthy salad. Maybe they eat a little more, some occasionally named as organic salad.
This is both ritual, but basically eat the same salad, same tomatoes, same hamburger,
and hot drum, and the veggie burgers, or whatever. I mean, it's the same thing. Really, nothing
else.
Us, us, that. We all the same. And this is not just a human being. It's the animals. Same.
Even we look a lot different, but same thing. We eat, and we will eat. Need, and all. It's
not just that we eat and all that. Need and all is the same. Intentionally same.
[MUSIC PLAYING]